>>REGINA MEREDITH: OK now
we're getting into some almost
sacrilegious territory, OK?
.>>BARBARA HAND CLOW: Oh, good.
>>REGINA: And I
think it's necessary.
As I mentioned in
our other show,
the reason we're doing this
and have reconvened here
in British Columbia
is that when we
did the Alchemy of Nine
conventions, we almost--
I don't know why-- skipped
past the fourth dimension.
Because it has such immediate
and direct influence
on this dimension, it seems
like that was a huge oversight.
I thought, what happened?
So now we're back, and
now we have a chance
to really go into it.
And we're going to devote the
hour to the fourth dimension
and also the beings associated
with its influence and control
in terms of humanity,
which are the Annunaki.
And so what I would like
to do is have you first
give us the standard
understanding
of who the Annunaki
are, Sitchin-style.
And then we're going
to go on, and I'm
going to you get your
impressions beyond Sitchin
in some very direct questions.
So first of all,
set up the Annunaki.
.>>HAND CLOW: Well, the Annunaki
are also called the Anunnaj,
are the gods who
vary in literature,
and then they pass into Akkadian
and Babylonian literature.
And we've known about these
gods since the Sumerian tablets
were translated 200 years ago.
And mostly Sumerian scholars
have investigated this issue.
And it's is very similar to the
pantheon in Egyptian teaching,
or in any religious teaching,
any ancient religious teaching.
And then Zecharia Sitchin
came along in 1976
and published The
12th Planet, which
is his interpretation of who
the Annunaki are in the Sumerian
scriptures.
And I think he's
partially right,
but I don't think
he's totally right.
>>REGINA: Set us up with how
he described who they were,
what their role is,
why they were here.
.>>HAND CLOW: He says
that there were a bunch
of extraterrestrials, and
he says that they come from
a planet called Nibiru, which
means in Sumerian "the planet
of the crossing."
And Nibiru means the crossing.
And so he says that this
planet goes around the Sun,
and it's part of
our solar system,
and it passes close to
Earth every 3,600 years.
And he says that when
it passes close to Earth
that the Annunaki then
land, and he believes--
he's not with us
anymore-- but he believes
that they had spaceships.
He believes that
their literature
discusses spaceships.
And I don't really
think so, personally.
But he believes the
Sumerian literature
is describing the
gods coming down
from Nibiru and from the sky.
And then once they
get down to the earth,
then take over human
culture and impregnate
the best-looking women
and produce a race.
So that Sitchin's basic story.
>>REGINA: And I mean from
that, a lot of other people
have picked up on
that basic story,
and what comes out of it
is the notion that we're
a slave species to the gods.
.>>HAND CLOW: That's right.
>>REGINA: Right?
.>>HAND CLOW:
Yeah, that's right.
>>REGINA: And tell us where the
enslavement part of that story
comes in.
.>>HAND CLOW: Well, he believes
that they have been coming
to the Earth for the
last 400,000 years.
And first of all,
I see no evidence
for that in
archeology whatsoever,
but there are people
who disagree with that.
We first start seeing real
evidence of human mining
activity and all that,
as far as I'm concerned,
around 100,000
years ago with red
ochre mining in southern Africa.
So he believed
that they have been
enslaving the human race for
400 years, and then gradually--
>>REGINA: 400,000.
.>>HAND CLOW: Oh, excuse me--
400,000 years.
Right.
And they're gradually
triggering humans into evolving.
And it just doesn't fit
with my own paradigm
at all with what has
happened with the human race.
Not at all.
>>REGINA: OK.
Let's go into that story
a little bit further,
and then I want to get to the
Pleiadians and speak about this.
There's something
in there that's
a nuance that I've
always wondered about.
OK.
So the primary characters
were Enlil and Enki, right?
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And what
were their positions?
Because they really were
in opposing positions.
>>HAND CLOW: Well, they're
kind of like in the literature
itself.
They're kind of like a
Cain and Abel figure.
And Enki is the
good guy, and Enlil
is the bad guy, the bad god.
And, to tell you the
truth, I can't really
say too much more about it.
I haven't really studied that.
>>REGINA: But do you think
that maybe the Christian lore
of Cain and Abel was
directly handed down
through that particular story?
>>HAND CLOW: Well, yeah.
What happened with the
Sumerian literature,
we know for sure, is that,
as far as Western religion
is concerned, the stories that
are in the Sumerian literature,
and then the Acadian
literature, and then
the Babylonian literature--
we know that those
influenced the Bible.
Because a lot of the
stories in the Bible go
back to the early literature.
So you could say
Cain and Abel could
be a model of Enlil and Enki.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: You
could say that, yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
And now what about the Nibiru--
the whole notion, this planet.
Meaning there are chat
rooms around the world that
are hysterical--
>>HAND CLOW: Oh, yes.
Millions.
>>REGINA: --about
our annihilation
by the planet Nibiru.
Let's talk about it
from your perspective.
>>HAND CLOW: Yes.
I'll do that from
two perspectives.
First of all, there are
many, many points of view
we can take regarding
what's actually going on
with the solar system and
whether this planet exists
or not.
There's also a lot of people
who believe that we're actually
a binary star system.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: And
that's what I think.
The major person on that score
is a guy named Cruttenden--
>>REGINA: Walter
Cruttenden, yes.
>>HAND CLOW: --a scientist
named Walter Cruttenden.
And so there is an
issue with something
influencing the sun and
something influencing
the solar system.
But, having studied
both ideas, I
find that the issue of the
binary star system a lot more--
see, Regina, I go
more toward science.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: And so with
the binary star system--
since we now know
that at least 95%
of the suns out in the
universe are binary,
there's every reason to
think that our sun is binary.
>>REGINA: And Cruttenden
says, in his belief,
that that companion
star is Sirius.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: Does that
make sense to you?
I mean, certainly, with
the emphasis on Sirius
in the times the Egyptians.
>>HAND CLOW: But then
there's an issue.
A lot of people think
that we can't see it.
And I think even
Cruttenden gets into issues
of how we can't see it.
Because when
something is going--
>>REGINA: Brown dwarf.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
When something is
going around like
that it's hard to detect
it and hard to see it.
And so I would say I
would tend to think
that we're just not seeing it
because it's a brown dwarf.
I tend to go in that direction.
But we don't really
know, and, again,
this is one of these--
we're in a period
of marvelous time of discovery.
>>REGINA: Well, and
there are dynamics
that are in play all the time
regarding essentially keeping
the cosmos in its place.
>>HAND CLOW: That's right.
>>REGINA: And there are forces
of repulsion and attraction
that are always in
place, that keep
these systems stable and safe.
Yet we buy so terribly
into this notion
that something's going to
come and slam into us again,
create another cataclysm,
and it's that planet.
And so his work has instilled
a great deal of fear in people.
>>HAND CLOW: Well, see,
I think that you're
getting closer to why people
have bought into this Sitchin
idea to this degree.
Because what I look for when
I watch an idea like this,
and playing out, and
seeing how people respond,
is when I see a
tremendous amount of fear
and a tremendous amount of--
what's the right word for
it-- apocalyptical thoughts,
I get pretty suspicious.
Because people just tend to buy
into apocalyptical thoughts.
And so I think that this
cataclysm that we actually
did experience-- scientifically
we know about all
of these cataclysms, from
11,500 to 13,000 years ago.
We have all the data on it now.
And I think what we're seeing
with people is a tendency
to buy into an apocalypse now
because it happened before.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: And then one of
the interesting things to me
about my lifetime is that my
grandfather was half Cherokee.
And he was my teacher.
And he taught me all
about the cataclysm
and all about the
stuff that I've
come through with in
this lifetime in my work.
And what was strange for
me as a child was there
was my grandfather's story.
And he was a Cherokee
record keeper,
and so he knew what
he was talking about.
And then, meanwhile,
science completely
contradicted his story until
Velikovsky started publishing
books in the 1960s and 1970s.
And so it was a
mystery to me when
I was going through
my levels of education
as to why people didn't
get the real story.
Because, to me, it
was kind of obvious
what the real story was.
But, of course, I was
told the real story.
And then, finally, I have
come to the conclusion
that part of the
post-traumatic stress syndrome
is the ability to just block
the memory because the memory is
so terrifying of what happened.
Because it was really bad.
I mean, very little
survived on this planet.
It's a miracle that our
species is even here.
>>REGINA: And virtually
every major religion
reflects this story.
>>HAND CLOW: That's right.
And so then what
happens is that people,
because they've been denied
the story by science--
I watched scientists
through the 70s and 80s.
They tried to shut
Velikovsky down.
They tried to get his publisher
to stop publishing him.
He was really--
like a lot of people
who have really correct
ideas-- was really
harassed by the
scientific establishment.
And so I finally
decided the scientists
have a great big case of
primary catastrophobia.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HAND CLOW: In
other words, they
are so terrified that
anything like this
could have happened that
they continually deny it.
But fortunately
we're now in a time
where everybody
knows this happened.
First of all, in alternative
research and big alternative
researchers work with concept--
>>REGINA: Graham Hancock and--
>>HAND CLOW: Hancock and--
>>REGINA: --Robert
Schoch, all of them.
≫>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
And so we've come to a point now
where people know about this.
And then the scientific
establishment, meanwhile,
is digging up all the data.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: So a new
paradigm is in place,
and it's going to straighten
out a lot of confused thinking.
>>REGINA: And a lot
of this confusion
actually came at the hands
of Sitchin originally.
And so many devotees
of his work have really
gone on to expand on his story.
That if it was distorted
thinking to begin with,
what we're getting is something
more distorted essentially.
And you knew him when.
I would like to-- if you don't
really talk about this much--
but I would like you
to share a little bit
about your early meeting with
him and relationship with him.
>>HAND CLOW: Well, I
don't care very much,
because my primary
career in this lifetime
has been as a publisher.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: And
so I rarely talk
about people that I've
published and authors that I've
worked with and all that.
And because we, our
company, was one
of the publishers of Sitchin's
work, the hardcover editions,
I'm really not at liberty
to say a lot of things.
Because it's a
professional issue.
But of course I got to know him.
Because I get to know
all of our authors.
And I had some very interesting
conversations with him.
And I have a lot
of respect for him.
And you know William Irwin
Thompson, the philosopher?
>>REGINA: Mm-hm.
>>HAND CLOW: Remember
William Irwin Thompson?
Well, William Irwin Thompson,
I think he's probably dead now.
Because he was 10 or 15
years older than I am.
But William Irwin
Thompson and I got
into a six-hour conversation
about this about 20 years ago.
And William finally said,
"You know what, Barbara?
This is a case of
misplaced concreteness."
And I really--
>>REGINA: Explain
what that mean to us.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
I really like that idea,
because what he was saying--
and it's true--
that a lot of what Sitchin
had to say was true.
But then he had to
go too far with it.
Because you don't have to--
it's just like the whole
issue of extraterrestrials
abducting people and
some of the issues
that we saw happening 20
years ago so frequently.
In my experience, people
turn psychic things
into solid things.
So it doesn't have to--
the Annunaki do not have
to be solid beings that
landed with spaceships
on this planet,
but they still could exist
as beings in the universe.
>>REGINA: And that's
what we'll talk about
as reaching in
from another realm,
from another dimensional field.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah
>>REGINA: But,
still, it ended up
that there seemed to be an
agenda that was playing out
in Sitchin's work.
>>HAND CLOW: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: And maybe
explain what that agenda
was from your point of view.
>>HAND CLOW: It's worth really
getting to the agenda of it.
I'd just like to say, before
that, that my part in it
is that in the "Alchemy
of Nine Dimensions,"
the Pleiadians, not
me, but the Pleiadians
came through and said that
every dimension has a keeper.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HAND CLOW: And
there's nine dimensions.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: So,
like, there's Sirius,
keeps the sixth dimension, the
Pleiades, the fifth dimension.
So what they seem
to be saying is
that, in each one
of these dimensions,
there are intelligences,
but they aren't necessarily
solid human beings like we are.
We're the keepers of
the third dimension,
and so we're solid human
beings sitting here right now.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: And so
what they said was,
they said the Annunaki
are the keepers
of the fourth dimension.
And I've spent the last
25 years working on that
and trying to understand it.
And I feel that I do
understand it now,
in the sense that
they are the holders
of a gigantic psychological
archetypal realm.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: And, in
that sense, we humans
seem to need to have an
archetypal field to play in
between dark and light.
Like I think when that kind
of experience is healthy
it shows up in art,
in various forms
of art, and mystery play,
and dancing, and music,
and all that.
And I think when
that field becomes
unhealthy it goes into politics,
and bad guys and good guys,
and all that kind of stuff.
So the Annunaki, these gods
or beings of this dimension,
are the keepers and holders
of all of that information
and all of that data.
>>REGINA: And so what
is it in the direction--
and he was supposedly directly
translated from cuneiform,
right?
This knowledge--
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
>>REGINA: What was
it in there, embedded
in there, that made him believe
these were physical beings?
>>HAND CLOW: As far as I'm
concerned, it's his own belief.
Now there's another issue
with Zecharia Sitchin's
translations.
He, when he published his
books, a lot of Sumerian experts
were really freaked out.
Because they've
studied the literature,
and so have I. The
[INAUDIBLE] is one
of my favorite spiritual works.
And they freaked out
because they just
didn't see it the same way.
So, finally, one
Sumerian scholar--
a big time Sumerian scholar--
went after Sitchin's
translations.
And, just like with
all translations,
they have a real slant to them.
And so the slant is to
go into this description
of these gods who landed in
spaceships and stuff like that.
>>REGINA: So in the minds
of the other scholars
these were not
physical entities?
>>HAND CLOW: Yes, exactly.
Before Sitchin came along,
they just think of them just
like the Egyptian pantheon.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: People don't
think of Anubis and Ra
as physical beings who
came down and landed.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: Although there
are issues with that one,
too, because some
people do think that.
And some people think that
around 6,000 years ago
or something of that being of
Sirius, the Egyptian pantheon,
actually landed on the Earth.
So it's really a sticky wicket,
as far as I'm concerned.
For instance, you
have to wonder, like,
are we talking about beings who
become solid here but otherwise
aren't solid where they exist?
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>HAND CLOW: That's my
experience with the Pleiades.
>>REGINA: Well, that's what
I was going to ask you next.
>>HAND CLOW: The only place
I have any direct experience
is with the Pleiadians.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: And I
basically am almost
like a hybrid person,
and Earth human being
and a person who
lives on the Pleiades.
And when I'm existing
in the Pleiades, which
is often meditation and very
high states of consciousness,
I'm not particularly physical.
I'm almost more like an
electromagnetic light form.
And then I've seen them twice.
I saw them when I
was four months old,
and I still remember it.
And then I saw them
when I was around 40.
So the most
significant appearances
when I was an adult, and I
had four children, and the two
younger ones were, like,
three and five years old.
So, when you're home
with small children,
you can't take your
eyes off of them.
So, in this case, I had a
house, and I had a kitchen,
and I had a study behind.
And the Pleiadians-- I was
in my study for some reason.
I got a few minutes or whatever.
Or maybe Jerry was outside.
I don't know.
But they appeared in my study,
and it was a group of them,
like around 13 or 14 of them,
who just parked themselves
on a banco--
that's the way they call
a bed in New Mexico.
They stayed there
for four hours.
I went back into the
house, checked everything,
and came back and forth
four or five times.
And they were just there.
And they were radiating the most
exquisite, beautiful energy,
just energy of just
absolute unconditional love.
>>REGINA: What did
they look like to you?
>>HAND CLOW: Like I
say, these little--
like Casper the ghost.
Like I had 13 or
14 little Casper
the ghosts in the banco bed.
And they were almost palpable.
>>REGINA: It's interesting.
Because once you start
getting into this,
then you start looking at
the stories of other people.
Steven Greer, for
one, which is he
closely aligns himself
with the Pleiades, as well,
and those beings.
And, for him, when
you see his drawings,
they're very humanoid in nature.
>>HAND CLOW: Mm-hm, mm-hm.
>>REGINA: Now--
and I even remember
him saying to a group of
people who were saying, well,
what did they look like--
and he pointed to me.
He said, they look like her.
Right?
So now where would
he get an impression
that Pleiadians look more
or less like me or us?
>>HAND CLOW: Well, this is
an interesting question.
Because there's a whole
bunch of Pleiadians.
Because, remember, there's
seven stars in the system?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: And, as far as I
can tell, in different stars,
in different planets, they
have different appearances,
as far as I can tell.
>>REGINA: OK.
That makes sense.
>>HAND CLOW: So the
ones I'm relating
to are these little
electromagnetic beings.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>HAND CLOW: But I agree
with what he says about you.
Because I've also seen
a blond type Pleiadian.
>>REGINA: Yes, OK.
>>HAND CLOW: I've seen the type.
>>REGINA: OK.
And another thing that I found
kind of curious about this
is the Pleiades can be
seen with the naked eye.
>>HAND CLOW: Mm-hm.
>>REGINA: So we're looking
at something that's roughly--
>>HAND CLOW: Yes.
>>REGINA: --in our
range of frequency--
>>HAND CLOW: Sure.
>>REGINA: --which would
be still, more or less,
considered third dimensional.
So if the planets
exist physically
in the third dimension,
are we seeing
beings that are
another expression
or living within another
dimension of those planets,
just as Earth is
multi-dimensional and we are?
>>HAND CLOW: Well, as
you know, in my system,
the Pleiades is
fifth dimensional.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: And then the
Earth thing is third--
we were third dimensional--
>>REGINA: Right.
That's what I'm asking.
>>HAND CLOW: --in
space and time.
Right.
So, as far as I can
tell, they exist
in a fifth dimensional realm.
>>REGINA: But in
the general region
of those third
dimensional planets,
or would appear to
be third dimensional.
>>HAND CLOW: They may not be.
And like, for example,
take the Sirians.
And some people think
that they see beings
that look like the Sirians.
≫>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: But,
boy, what I see
is just outrageous
complex geometry.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So what
are we seeing when
we see the light from those
stars at night in the sky?
>>HAND CLOW: We're seeing
the same thing we're seeing
with any kind of starlight.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: But I do think that
the planets and star systems
that are keepers
of the dimensions--
>>REGINA: Mm-hm.
>>HAND CLOW: I think we
have very profound reactions
to them.
I think people have
strong reaction to Sirius
and certainly the Pleiades.
People talk about that.
And then also the
Orion star system,
which is the keeper of
the eighth dimension.
That star system has
had a huge impact
on humanity and sacred
geometry on this planet.
Because all over
the planet we have
renditions of the
Orion star system,
all over the planet
at sacred sites.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: So people,
for some reason,
are mirroring the eighth
dimension down here.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
So now let's go back
to the Annunaki.
Thank you for clarifying
that within the Pleiadians.
Listen--
>>HAND CLOW: I would like to
say one more thing, Regina.
>>REGINA: Yes, please.
>>HAND CLOW: Just to clarify
it as much as you can.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HAND CLOW: John Mack did a
lot of really wonderful work--
>>REGINA: Yes, he did.
>>HAND CLOW: --at Harvard.
Showing that what people see
is directly relational to where
their consciousness is at.
So let's say a being appears
in my space or your space
from the eighth
dimension, which is
the realm of divine
consciousness.
You could call God,
goddess, if you want to.
One person might see Jesus.
Another person might
see Mary Magdalene.
Another person might see
an electromagnetic form.
Another person might see a bird.
And it's like--
what people see--
you're looking at something that
is not physical in the way we
are in this dimension.
It's a different thing.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: And so people
perceive it differently.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HAND CLOW: You know.
>>REGINA: That is very true.
And John Mack's work
was stunning in that.
And what did you take away
from John Mack's work,
in that essentially he
said this phenomena-- there
are commonalities to this
abduction phenomena, right?
>>HAND CLOW: Mm-hm.
>>REGINA: He had-- what--
thousands of clinical cases
in the end.
And he put his own reputation
on the line for it and said,
whatever's going on, there
are consistent themes that
are happening in these cases.
>>HAND CLOW: Yes.
>>REGINA: What do
you think was--
what do you attribute that to?
>>HAND CLOW: Well, see,
if you look at things
from the point of view
of the archetypal mind,
archetypal consciousness,
and it seems
to have been a
phase, by the way.
You notice how you don't
hear about it anymore?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HAND CLOW: It seems to have
just been a period of time.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: And
it could be that we
were getting to the point in
the 1940s and 1950s or whatever.
First of all, let's
look at the fact
that science was
exploring space.
And so, once science
started going out into space
and exploring it,
then people naturally
started thinking about, well,
how am I connected to that?
And what kind of encounter
am I going to have?
And so then, if
a person is going
through some kind of a
traumatic experience,
like some kind of
nightmarish experience,
they may see it as
extraterrestrial.
So if we look at
people historically,
they've seen these
things as gnomes,
as angels, as extraterrestrials.
So where is that
coming-- the question
is where is that coming from?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: Well, if
you really understand
my nine-dimensional model,
my nine-dimensional model
is saying that in
this dimension,
in the third dimension, impulses
are coming through to us
from higher realms.
And then what happens
is they filter
through the fourth dimension.
That's the way the
system basically works.
So let's just
assume this is true.
And let's assume that
for some reason, which
I don't think we
completely understand,
let's say that
impulses are coming
at us from higher dimensions.
And we don't want to think
about that, because I'm
sure you've had a few, what
I call, numinous experiences.
Where you just have an
experience of something
that is so otherworldly
that it just--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HAND CLOW: --it just-- you
know, you just are stunned.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: And so
then, OK, there you are.
Maybe you're a
four-year-old child.
teenager or whatever.
What do you do with that?
Well, the human mind naturally
goes through its own program
to seek a way to explain what
that is, to see what that is.
So that's kind of-- other
people have said there's
nothing unusual about that.
But I'll say something
that most people
haven't been willing to say.
When I was grappling
with this issue of,
like, why are all these people
getting abducted and hauled
away in cars and all that.
You remember that.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HAND CLOW: It was what?
The '80s and '90s mostly.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HAND CLOW: So course,
like with anything,
I went into a deep level
of questioning about this.
Like, what could possibly this
be, the abductions, especially.
And then I realized,
you know what?
There's nothing in these stories
by these extraterrestrials
abducting humans that isn't
going on in medical technology
day after day after day.
>>REGINA: That's true.
>>HAND CLOW: And then
suddenly I realized
that these bizarre stories
of people being abducted
and all these
things done to them
corresponded exactly
with the point
when people started
buying into and paying
their money for invasive
medical technology.
So I think a lot of it has
been a way of processing
modern medicine.
Because I think modern medicine
is an extremely traumatic
situation.
>>REGINA: It is.
Yeah.
You probably would
not have a direct line
up with the individuals that
Sitchin was dealing with,
all of them having had
invasive medical procedures.
Are you saying it was more
in the cumulative mind?
>>HAND CLOW: No, I'm
saying it's a way--
just think, OK.
Go back 30, 40 years
ago, 50 years ago,
whatever, when really
invasive type tech--
and when I say invasive
type technology,
people are supposed to go
off and get tested regularly
to see if there's anything
wrong with them or not.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: Instead
of just living--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: --and
knowing they're OK--
>>REGINA: Very true.
>>HAND CLOW: --until it's
time to go to the doctor.
So really people got
under the microscope
around 40 or 50 years ago.
And my father was a doctor and
a very big doctor in the AMA.
And he was American
Medical Association.
And he was very, very
upset by what was going on.
Because suddenly
we turned the human
into something that had
to be examined, prodded--
I mean, like colonoscopies--
>>REGINA: And profited from.
>>HAND CLOW: --things like that.
Like, well, that's what
the Zeta Reticuli do,
if you know what I mean.
So what I'm trying to say is--
back to the fourth dimension,
which is our topic
today, which is
the archetypal realm
of consciousness,
and the part of our
awareness that splits energy
into dark and light.
As this invasive
medical technology
started to come
into people's lives,
and then they're gored
into paying for it
and suffering for
it, et cetera--
I think that the invasive
extraterrestrial issue
might have actually been a way
for people to process that--
>>REGINA: Process that.
>>HAND CLOW: --medicine.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>HAND CLOW: Because
now it's all gone.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: Where did that go?
>>HAND CLOW: And then
a whole bunch of people
just don't go to the doctor
anymore, you know, now.
>>REGINA: Well, it seems when
it comes to the ET story,
you have waves of types
of characters and stories
that emerge decade by decade.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: And that era was the
era of abduction, for example.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
>>REGINA: You know.
And now we're kind of moving
almost to transhumanism.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Right?
Particularly a little alien DNA.
>>HAND CLOW: So if you
take scientific-- if you
take space technology
and combine it
with medical technology, they
do correspond in the same time.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
Yeah, that's a good point.
>>HAND CLOW: And when something
happens in our reality--
this is a really
important point.
When some kind of big
change, an unusual thing
occurs in our reality,
everybody processes it.
It doesn't just happen in
the hospital down the street.
We all process what's
coming into our reality.
Like, right now,
I think we're all
trying to process what's
going on with computer devices
and what's going on
with some of the--
well, for example,
how about robots.
How are we going
to process robots?
But I think we need to start
realizing, in that reality--
OK.
The fourth dimension-- we
are all very, very, very
heavily impacted by the
fourth dimension every day.
And I've used the analogy that
we're like an Oreo cookie.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: And
the second dimension
is the bottom of the
cookie with the dark cake
or whatever it's made out of.
That's the realm under us where
the earthquakes come from.
And we're just sticky gooey
sugar in the third dimension.
And then the fourth dimension
is the top of the Oreo cookie.
And so, lo and behold, I found
out from another researcher,
Scott Wolter, last week
when I was reading a book,
that the Oreo cookie is--
and I showed it to.
>>REGINA: You did.
And you brought a package along.
>>HAND CLOW: When Regina
arrived this time,
I gave her an Oreo cookie.
Because the Oreo cookies
are all imprinted with all
of the main Templar's symbols.
>>REGINA: That's right.
I was shocked when
you pointed that out.
>>HAND CLOW: And when you think
of trillions and trillions
of people--
>>REGINA: I was looking at it.
The Maltese cross--
you have fleur-de-lis--
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>HAND CLOW: It's fascinating.
I mean, looking at that
on a subliminal level.
But essentially
what you're saying,
then, is, A, the
fourth dimension
is influencing our feelings and
our thoughts into this field,
and that we are more
collectively connected by mind
than we give
ourselves credit for.
>>HAND CLOW: That's right.
Because I think the trick
with the fourth dimension--
and after all of this
struggle with things,
including Zecharia
Sitchin's work--
I've kind of gotten to the
point where I feel like I really
understand it.
And so the facts are,
as far as I'm concerned,
like an Oreo cookie, we're
sandwiched between the second
and the fourth dimension.
Here we are.
We're right in between here.
And then we're having to
deal with earthquakes,
and volcanoes, and
earth movements,
and all the second
dimensional forces coming out.
And then the fourth
dimensional forces
are just as palpable for us, but
they're emotionally palpable.
And then, if you
think about it, what's
the most difficult
part of anybody's life?
Emotion.
>>REGINA: Emotions.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah, right.
So the fourth
dimension is the most--
the reason I think we
didn't do much with it
before is it's such a difficult
to dimension to deal with.
>>REGINA: So our emotions
are being influenced and even
manipulated from the fourth?
>>HAND CLOW: See, that's
where it gets interesting.
That's where it's up to us.
All right.
So regarding the
fourth dimension,
what goes on, as
far as I can tell,
is these five other
dimensions, higher dimensions,
are continually penetrating
the fourth dimension.
Because in order to
get to us in 3-D,
you've got to go through
the fourth dimension.
And the fourth dimension is
polarized into dark and light.
And so once we start
getting impulsed by it,
it comes to us by
means of our feelings.
And so what we need
to do is we need
to become really accurate
readers of our own feelings.
We need to start--
And it's just like anything.
It's just like any other
learning curve in life.
If you really concentrate
on what you're feeling,
and if you're not drugged out
and getting drunk all the time
or whatever you're
doing, and if you really
attune to your feelings
and really pick up
on your feelings, then
the higher energies
start to come through--
inspiration, art, creativity.
But if you're deadening your
consciousness, your feelings,
if you're constantly
like putting it down
through addictions or
addictive behavior or whatever,
then you're stuffing your
feelings, and it won't work.
>>REGINA: But the
thing is-- if we're--
when you start the
book, you talk about--
this chapter on fourth
dimension, you say,
how do know your
feelings are your own?
If we are this connected, in
terms of our collective mind,
how do you begin separating
your feelings out
from something that's
influencing you
and part of the collective?
>>HAND CLOW: That's
what's called
learning how to operate
with the fourth dimension.
In other words, the
fourth dimension
is like a gigantic
navigational zone.
And if you really work with it
and you really observe yourself
and observe what's going on, you
can tell whether something is
your own feeling
or somebody else's.
But the truth is we are
being influenced all the time
by the feelings of others.
And then the media is
constantly manipulating us
through those feelings.
>>REGINA: So there's
something higher, deeper,
truer in ourselves
that would essentially
be our yardstick for whether
or not a feeling is our own.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
And most importantly, this
is our dimension right here.
>>REGINA: Right, right.
>>HAND CLOW: We're
sovereign in this dimension.
And we get to choose
what we're going to do.
Like, if you have a
feeling about something,
you don't have to do it.
It's your choice as to
whether you do it or not.
And so the feelings are
constantly impacting us,
but if we start to recognize
that we are sovereign
in our dimension-- but it
takes a tremendous amount
of personal growth and personal
commitment, doesn't it?
>>REGINA: Yes.
And the story, such
as "The Slave Species"
that we supposedly are,
really diminishes our ability
to have that kind
of sovereignty--
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: --over ourselves.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
So let's talk about where--
>>REGINA: It makes us
highly exploitable.
>>HAND CLOW: --where
have the Annunaki gone?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: You know,
as far as I'm concerned
they're in the media, they're in
the medical programs, they're--
the Annunaki, the god-- let's
call it the god program instead
of the Annunaki.
Because it's the same
program in any culture.
It isn't just Sumerian.
And what's happened
is these belief
systems have penetrated
the systems that we use.
And that's where we have
to start distinguishing
what are we buying into.
I mean one of the most--
>>REGINA: It's trying
to question it, yeah.
>>HAND CLOW: One of the
most profitable industries
in the world, ever, is
the cancer industry.
>>REGINA: Oh, boy.
Yeah.
>>HAND CLOW: So what
are we buying into?
>>REGINA: Exactly.
Well, let me add-- this
might be slightly off topic--
but let me ask you, what
in the world of science
and more quantum physics--
Michio Kaku and the guys, right?
>>HAND CLOW: Mm-hm.
>>REGINA: How do they
describe the attributes--
or do they even try
to describe attributes
of the fourth dimension?
>>HAND CLOW: No.
>>REGINA: Or is it just
simply a frequency range
that they have identified
with no attributes?
>>HAND CLOW: Well, as you
know, Einstein's definition,
scientific definition, of the
fourth dimension is different.
So the system I'm working with
is just a different system.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
And so, as far as scientists
are concerned and extremely
rational people, one
of the attributes
of this period of time
where we're mutating out
of this super-rational
phase of human consciousness
is that people like scientists
and very logical people
basically have a strong tendency
to try to completely ignore
fourth dimensional impulses.
For example-- what
would be a good example?
When you're trying to understand
how the fourth dimension
functions, dark and
light, the best way
to start to figure
out how it works
is by means of the
dark and light.
And yet, if you're an extremely
rational scientific person,
you just deny that
any of that's real.
It's not real.
But it is real.
And they are being impacted--
the extremely rational type
people--
are being impacted
constantly by these impulses
as much as anybody else.
But what they do is they
have a logical mechanism
in their brain that denies
that things are real.
So right now we're living with
this complex scientific basic
control of the planet where
certain things are simply
not real, even
though they are real.
And they're real for
lots and lots of people.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: But
the people who are
at the top of the
pyramid in control
are in a position to
declare what's real or not.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: A lot.
>>REGINA: Am I mistaken in
that later in the chapter
on the fourth
dimension in your book,
"The Alchemy of
Nine Dimensions,"
you talk about how the beings
in the fourth dimension--
or you can call them
"elite" or "beings"--
that manipulate from that
dimension actually do not like
the process of logic
and being rational,
that that doesn't work
well for them because they
can't manipulate.
So is there some hidden benefit
to not allowing themselves to--
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah,
there could be.
>>REGINA: --experience it?
>>HAND CLOW: Well, OK.
Look who's got all the power
and the money at this point--
the most rational people.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: So it's
just a phase right now.
That's all.
We're just in a
phase of that, which
is making it very, very
hard for the people who
aren't that rational.
For the people who are a lot
more artistic and intuitive,
it's a pretty hard time.
But let's watch closely to
see what goes on with science.
What happens is, because
there's such profound denial
of other levels of reality,
science can tend to go mad
and can tend to go evil.
Because if you deny the things
that are actually real and are
actually happening then--
>>REGINA: These
dualistic forces.
>>HAND CLOW: --eventually
you can go pretty crazy.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
OK.
That makes total sense.
>>HAND CLOW: And there's
a lot of mad scientists.
You know?
They really are.
They're living in a
world that doesn't
have much to do
with anything that's
going to do anybody any good.
>>REGINA: Well, it's like, look
to the transhumanist movement.
As far as I'm concerned,
that's one expression of it.
But also in the
fourth dimension it's
credited with being the
home of the Akashic Records.
So talk about that a little bit.
>>HAND CLOW: Actually, I meant
to talk to you about that.
The Akashic Records
are actually contained
in the first dimension.
That's where they're stored.
But in the fourth
dimension, because everybody
is relating to everybody else,
because everybody's lifetime is
intermeshed with
everybody else's lifetime,
then that information is--
>>REGINA: That's where
they're accessed.
>>HAND CLOW: It's in the
fourth dimension, yeah.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
And then another
expression of it
tends to be kind of angelic
realms, guides, and so forth.
Talk about those attributes
of the fourth dimension
and how it interfaces us.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah, that was
a very interesting point.
Because in my system,
the fourth dimension
is an even number, number four.
And then the sixth dimension
is, and the eighth dimension.
And so in my system
the higher guides
are actually coming
from the sixth dimension
and the eighth dimension.
And then, just like anything
else, in order to get to us
and to communicate with
us, and connect with us,
they have to go through
the fourth dimension.
So what happens is
beings that are actually
a very high consciousness
often will come through and be
described as religious
figures in others
who pick up on something
that we think is God.
But what we're missing
is we're missing
the really high frequency
and high fine dimensionality,
a really divine consciousness.
>>REGINA: And do they
have to essentially lower
their frequencies
in their presences
to be able to
communicate with us then.
>>HAND CLOW: They don't.
>>REGINA: And they can
be seen as anything?
>>HAND CLOW: They don't.
What happens is our--
you or I-- we're
running in the frequency
of the fourth dimension.
So if your consciousness
is really high, then,
when a divine being
wants to contact you,
it just moves right
through you and right
through the fourth dimension and
right into the third dimension.
And if you got a really
divine inspiration,
you wouldn't tend to
interpret it as Yahweh--
>>REGINA: No.
>>HAND CLOW: --Jehovah, right?
>>REGINA: Right, no.
>>HAND CLOW: OK.
But millions of
people on the planet,
if they get any kind of
impulse of higher energy,
they would think
that it is Jehovah.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: You
see how that works?
>>REGINA: Yes, because
that's the conditioning.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And you
actually said in the book
that there are beings
such as Yahweh and Zeus
that may actually have
been somehow a fabrication
of our collective mind.
Can you talk about that?
Because that's-- now we're
getting into classic mythology
and the beings in that realm.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
And that's a fascinating period.
And that actually, in
terms of Gebser's work,
that goes back to the issue
of the mythical point.
So as soon as the mythical
phrase came in, then,
for a couple thousand years,
we saw these different beings
in these different
higher dimensions.
And, really, we
personified them basically.
And so the Greek
pantheon is especially
fun, with the gods
fighting with each other,
and taking their girlfriends,
and all that kind of stuff.
And if you look at the stories
of the gods in Greek mythology,
they mirror the stories
of human behavior.
But it's a way for people to
play with those archetypes.
And so, in a healthy culture--
and one of my favorite
healthy cultures
is the Minoan culture,
only because it's
a fairly recent culture,
Minoan culture back in 1500 BC.
And the whole culture
was dedicated to art.
It was dedicated
to mystery plays,
and making art, and
painting, and all that.
Because if you playing
with these archetypes,
they're a lot of fun.
You could have a lot
of fun with them.
But if their denied, they
start to become demonized.
>>REGINA: Well, I
was going to say.
Then where does the
demonic realm come from?
The same place?
>>HAND CLOW: That's
a good question.
And I think it comes from--
I think it comes from
the lower dimensions,
from the second dimension.
And I think for a certain
number of people--
and I'm playing with this in
fiction, a really great thing
to play with in fiction--
for a certain number of
people, when the forces
come from the second
dimension, they
can have experiences,
demonic type experiences.
And that's a very,
very complex topic.
>>REGINA: Yes, it is.
>>HAND CLOW: As you know.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HAND CLOW: But what can happen
is that people can literally
have demonic type experiences.
>>REGINA: Mm-hm.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Let's talk
about the Egyptians
and how some of the
beings showed up
at that period of time and
the presence of these animal
representations of the gods.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
I think the reason that
the Egyptian consciousness
and pantheon is
so valuable to us
is that it goes back to more--
it goes back to more like
1500 BC to about 4000 BC.
It goes back further,
even in Sumerian culture,
as far as I'm concerned.
>>REGINA: Oh, I mean, the
Hermetics would say that
the Egyptian culture
extends back--
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
It goes way back before--
>>REGINA: --a couple hundred
thousand years, yeah.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
But the way I would put
it is, because things are
so well-preserved in Egypt
because the climate is so dry,
and because it's
such an ancient--
Egyptian civilization
appears to have
been a relatively cohesive,
peaceful civilization
for 2,000 or 3,000 years,
which is way beyond anybody
else on the planet.
So because it goes back
to that earlier period,
it's a much more pure
and spiritual rendition
of spiritual cultures,
just because of its age.
It goes back, actually,
to the age of Taurus.
>>REGINA: Well, and there's
some proof there, also,
in the fact that it was
peaceful for those years.
>>HAND CLOW: That's right.
That's right.
Yeah.
And so the Egyptian
culture seems
to have had a good
hierarchy with people
with workers, and artists,
and pharaohs, and all that.
They seemed to have been a
fairly egalitarian culture.
I know a lot of people
don't think that's true.
But, when I look into it as
far as I can see, it's true.
And then they had a
fascinating pantheon
that was related to
animal archetypes.
And where this
comes from is-- this
is something not a lot
of people know about,
but I think it's
utterly fascinating.
The Egyptians had a
gigantic zoo on the Nile
that could have been 300 to
500 miles long on the Nile.
This goes back to like 3000 BC.
And they kept all
the animals there--
the hippopotamus,
and the eagles,
and everything that they had.
And what they did was Egyptian
priests spent their whole life
studying a particular animal.
And they would study the
intelligence of that animal,
because each animal has a
different type of intelligence.
And the Egyptians felt that
if human beings were going
to have a really high,
multifaceted, really
complex consciousness,
they needed
to have the intelligence
of the animals.
And so people would
actually-- priests
would actually meditate
with the animals,
and teach about
different animals,
like Anubis or like Sati
or something like that.
And they would teach people
how to have the intelligence
of that animal.
And then we see that
in indigenous culture,
like in North America and first
nations, where people have
animal clans and
people identify,
like with the turtle clan or
the eagle clan or whatever.
They're identifying with the
intelligence of that animal.
And so what this is telling
us is that part of being human
is having these different
facets of animal consciousness.
>>REGINA: And yet those became
known as deities themselves--
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah, that's right.
>>REGINA: --these
representations.
>>HAND CLOW: Because they were
considered to be deities, why?
Because they were intelligent.
And so they understood.
I mean, when you start to
think about what it takes,
for example, for swans to
migrate from the North Pole
all the way down
to South America,
and you start to really study
what goes on with animals,
you start to realize just
the extreme intelligence
of these beings.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: And so, in
sacred cultures, versus just
rational cultures, you
see much more respect.
And then what does that create?
People are less likely
to destroy species.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: So
one of the reasons
we're having such a terrible
problem with species being
destroyed is people
don't realize they're
destroying their own minds.
They're destroying
their own habitat
and their own intelligence.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Very good points.
Going back just
for a moment, too,
to the egalitarian
nature of those
dynasties in Egypt, the ones
that we're more aware of.
There's certain
archaeological evidence
that the people were not
treated as slaves at that time,
the workers on the
great edifices and such
had adequate housing,
protein, and so forth,
and this was a
job like any other
at any other point in history.
So it wasn't based on slavery.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: So I don't know if
that's your take on it, or--
>>HAND CLOW: Well,
I think that one
of the things in the historical
record that has really
screwed a lot of
stuff up is the Hebrew
bad rap on the Egyptians.
>>REGINA: Yes.
That's what I'm saying.
>>HAND CLOW: And the whole bad
rap coming from the Exodus.
And then what was lost was
through this negative attitude
towards Egyptians
was the awareness
that the Egyptians were
really an egalitarian culture.
And when the Hebrews started to
come into Egypt, maybe 2000 BC,
something like that, they
weren't nearly as developed
as the Egyptians at all.
And so what happened is they
didn't recognize-- really
recognize-- the beauty of
what they were experiencing.
Because it was a
beautiful culture.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: So there's another
issue with animals, Regina,
that's interesting.
We now have the discovery
of Gobekli Tepe,
which is the site in Turkey.
>>REGINA: Turkey, yeah.
>>HAND CLOW: Which has been
carbon dated to 9400 BC--
right after the
cataclysm, by the way--
comes in.
And Gobekli Tepe has
all these pillars on it
with all these animals, these
raised relief animals on it.
And so we can see that even
12,000 years ago in temples,
people were honoring the animals
and working with the animals.
And then what we know
from Gobekli Tepe,
because of Andrew
Collins, we know
that what was going
on at Gobekli Tepe
was the animal
images on the pillars
are actually related to
the animals of the zodiac.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HAND CLOW: And so we start to
get to realize that this animal
consciousness is no
only on the earth,
but it's also in the sky.
In other words,
you could go back
into this early consciousness.
And we see this profound
honoring of nature
and the animals, which is what
we just have to get back to.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
Just quickly, as an
aside, Andrew, yourself,
which culture did he believe
Gobekli Tepe was a remnant of?
>>HAND CLOW: He thinks that it's
a remnant of the Aurignacian
culture that I
mentioned earlier.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>HAND CLOW: And so do I.
>>HAND CLOW: So do I, yeah.
I think that the Aurignacian
people were seafarers.
They were sailing all
over the place from Europe
over to America, all that stuff.
And they seem to
have done-- in fact,
they may be late remnants of
the Atlanteans, of course.
Because you never know, once you
go back before the cataclysm,
are we talking about
Atlanteans, or are we
talking about Aurignacian.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: But we
do have a pretty good
archaeological
record on those guys.
It would appear
that they probably--
but it was built right
after the cataclysm.
And that's what's important.
Obviously it's some
attempt to save--
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
>>HAND CLOW: --knowledge
that they still had.
And it became a record of the
knowledge 11,500 years ago.
It's amazing.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
It is amazing.
I mean, I'd love to interview
Andrew on that sometime.
Hard to get to.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
>>REGINA: (LAUGHING) Maybe
you can arrange that.
>>HAND CLOW: Well, I wrote
an article about that
because my issue with Gobekli
Tepe is, I think they also--
the pillars are also
showing postures.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HAND CLOW: And
so, in other words,
I think that when we come
back after the cataclysm
and we get beyond survivalism,
one of the first things we see
is the sacred postures.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yes, the re-emergence of
those sacred postures.
>>HAND CLOW: That's right.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Well, we'll continue.
We can do another talk on that.
Because that was something I
do want to talk to you about.
But now we'll continue
on the 4-D subject.
And one of the things
you mentioned--
you just tapped on earlier-- is
that 4-D exists as a duality.
Not a duality-- yeah, a duality.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Black and white
playing off of each other.
>>HAND CLOW: That's right.
>>REGINA: And let's
talk about that.
What happens to
us as humans when
we choose to play on or
off one side or the other,
or align with just one of
the sides in a duality?
>>HAND CLOW: Well, the
goal with the duality issue
is to have it be a polarity.
So let's say you have
an issue between--
what would be a good
example-- usually
it's an emotional
dynamic of some kind.
But maybe you have a
severe father complex
and a severe father issue.
And so in the early stages when
you're trying to resolve it,
in your mind you go, he's
either this or he's either that.
And then as you
start to develop more
and you start to grow more,
you start to realize, well, no.
He's not this or that.
He's both.
And then as you
develop an issue more,
it becomes a polarity where you
can see the whole range of what
an issue is.
Because just think of the
complexity of, for instance,
the relationship of a
daughter and a father.
And so all of us have
various complexes
because we are attempting
to grow more in that area.
And if we just say something
is black or white--
he's good or he's
bad-- you're not going
to get very far with that.
>>REGINA: And you're
saying that that actually
limits the access to our
own higher consciousness
at this point.
>>HAND CLOW: The
fourth dimension
is meant to be a real polarity.
And the keepers of
the fourth dimension
are there to create
the space for people
to examine all
elements of a dynamic.
Now then, of course,
I immediately
went, when I understood
that to some extent,
was, well, why does
it work that way?
Well, if you think about it,
we're all electromagnetic.
And we know from physics, for
example, that the particles
split and things like that.
And so it's just the
very nature of reality
to have things split
into dualities.
But our job as humans
in the third dimension
is to bring that
all together into--
>>REGINA: To create a
state of coherence again.
>>HAND CLOW: --a
complex polarity.
Yeah.
Because the real richness
actually comes from those
areas of the dark and the light.
So one of the countries that
I really enjoy teaching in
is Bali.
Because Bali continues
to have constant mystery
plays of the dark and
light and the dark gods
and the light gods and all that.
And they play with it.
The understand it.
>>REGINA: Do they reconcile it?
>>HAND CLOW: Pardon?
>>REGINA: Do they find a
way to reconcile it in this?
>>HAND CLOW: Oh, yeah.
The mystery plays
always resolve it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HAND CLOW: Somebody
learns something,
or a being will learn something.
>>REGINA: Yeah, but
at the same time,
when people start
receiving these impulses
from the fourth dimension,
they oftentimes,
as you say in your
book, ignore them.
And why is it we're so resistant
to these messages, which
seems to be where we are
right now as a species?
There are exceptions, of course,
that are growing out of this.
But really stuck and resistant.
>>HAND CLOW: Well, if you
start examining your feelings,
you have to grow.
So if you could just
stuff your feeling,
you don't have to grow.
So there's always
a strong tendency
for people not to grow.
And then what happens
is the feeling
gets stronger and stronger.
And finally you can't deny it.
And then usually with
feelings what happens
is it shows up in a partner.
We attract a partner to us
who's going to play out--
>>REGINA: This drama.
>>HAND CLOW: --a whole a
range of-- filling with drama.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
The duality.
>>HAND CLOW: Try to
deny-- that's right.
And so this whole emotional
realm that we live in
is this complex
emotional dynamic.
And there is definitely a strong
tendency to try to avoid it.
And we're coming out
of the Victorian era
where they were experts
at denying feelings.
>>REGINA: Oh, yes.
>>HAND CLOW: And so
we in our generation
and the generation after us is
breaking this tendency down.
Because once people
allowed themselves
to become rigid and
deny their feelings,
then life became very boring.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: You look
at the typical picture
of a Victorian parlor in
1890 just filled with junk,
you know?
Because people, they
don't feel anything,
but they have all that
stuff around them.
And so we've been
growing beyond that.
And also, in my lifetime,
by discovering that
we are a multi-traumatized
species from the cataclysms,
and we also have been blasting
through feelings of fear
and feelings of denial.
>>REGINA: Because of this
vulnerability that is
in the collective mind, the
beings that reach through--
you have beings reaching through
from the fourth dimension that
are maybe of a lower nature
and also of a higher nature.
Those of a higher nature
are whispering to us
to help inspire us
to open our minds.
Right?
>>HAND CLOW: But usually those
inspirations are actually
coming from--
>>REGINA: Those
other dimensions.
>>HAND CLOW: --the
higher five dimensions.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: And
they'll come through
into the fourth dimension
to work with it.
But usually they're
are actually those.
And so the point would be
that the more you do work
with the feelings, and the more
you work through the feelings,
the more open you are to
the higher dimensions.
And then what finally
happens is feelings become
a very different proposition.
When we're young and we're
in dramas and all that,
everything is intense.
And you feel a lot.
And then as you
start to get older,
your sensibilities
become a lot finer.
And this is because
the higher dimensions
are coming right through.
>>REGINA: And you
mentioned that this
is where we start moving beyond
the notion of victimhood,
of being victimized.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: So that
is a real part of--
>>HAND CLOW: I can't even--
>>REGINA: --of that black
and white complex is--
>>HAND CLOW:
--imagine thinking--
>>REGINA: --being a victim.
>>HAND CLOW: --of
myself as a victim.
>>REGINA: Yet--
>>HAND CLOW: I can't imagine--
>>REGINA: --a huge percentage of
people on the planet still do.
>>HAND CLOW: I know.
Of course.
Yeah.
And, of course, it's not true.
Nobody is a victim.
>>REGINA: So let's talk about
people that are watching this
right now who may be--
may be still experiencing
feelings of victimhood.
And how you start discerning
and working your way out
of that-- a little
practical advice
in working with the
fourth realm now.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
I certainly would
say step one is
to realize you're not a victim.
The issue-- you
created it yourself.
Wherever you are is
something that you created.
If you are in a
situation that's making
you feel like you're
a victim, then there's
a high probability you need to
get out of it or transform it.
But you don't have
to be a victim.
>>REGINA: No, you don't.
That's a matter of
actually examining
what these feelings are.
Taking them, accepting them, and
then examining them honestly.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
And so if you recall in
the Pleiadian agenda,
one of the things that
the Pleiadian got into
is to work with feelings
by means of thinking.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HAND CLOW: Do
you remember that?
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HAND CLOW: In other words,
realize that feelings are real
and that they mean something.
And don't just keep
feeling it and feeling it,
but start to really use your
intelligence to really figure
out what's causing this.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: Some
people just don't
think that they can
think about feelings.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: They
have to feel it.
You can't not feel
it by thinking.
But then there's the issue
of go ahead and feel it
and go ahead and feel it hard.
But what's really going on here?
>>REGINA: Right.
So once we get to
that point, we can
start breaking beyond
the victimization.
I just bring that
up for anyone still
struggling a little
bit with that--
>>HAND CLOW: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: --feeling wronged by--
>>HAND CLOW: A lot of people
are struggling with it.
>>REGINA: --wronged
by life, still.
>>HAND CLOW: In
fact, what I think
is really incredible is I watch
what's going on with refugees,
especially Syrian refugees.
They don't seem to feel
that they're victims.
They are just on the move, and
they're going to go for it,
and somehow they're going
to have a better life.
And it's really
amazing to see that.
Because when you think
of what they've been--
what's been done to them--
and yet they just figure, OK,
I can't live here anymore.
I'm going to find another life.
And that's really an
amazing thing to watch.
It's too bad we don't have
more information about that.
Because it's like
a wave of people.
>>REGINA: And speaking of
waves of consciousness,
you also write in your book
about these ecstatic kinds
of cultures start emerging when
there's a real need for change.
And as we talked about
in our other interview,
we're on the precipice of huge
global change in consciousness.
And let's just-- we only
have just a few minutes left.
Let's talk about
that part of it.
>>HAND CLOW: Well,
you know, Regina,
what I would say about
that is I would say,
we really are
starting to come up
against the wall of
organized religions.
Because organized
religions are going
to continue to keep
people from changing.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HAND CLOW: And yet the
circumstances on the planet--
regardless of what any
religion thinks or believes--
you can't avoid changing now.
You can't avoid changing now.
And so we're getting blown--
we're going to get blown
through belief systems
that we locked into and that we
thought would take care of us.
They're not going
to take care of you.
>>REGINA: No.
>>HAND CLOW: If you're
a Syrian mother who
has seven children, who's
going to take care of you?
The church isn't going to.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HAND CLOW: You know?
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And so, going back to the
Annunaki for a moment,
is it your understanding
that the Annunaki
presence from the
other dimension
is what actually established
the notion of religions
on this planet--
>>HAND CLOW: Yes.
>>REGINA: --for control?
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah, definitely.
And I've gone through
that in great detail.
So what happened is that it went
into-- the Babylonian religion
went into Hebrew religion.
And then it went into
Judeo-Christianity.
And so what I'm really
interested in, in my own work
right now, in fiction, is
that point 2,000 years ago
where it transmuted it
into Judeo-Christianity.
>>REGINA: Right.
And we have to start
breaking free of that.
We only have a couple
of minutes left.
And one of the things
you also talk about
is the fact that relationship
and relationships are a way
to start overcoming
duality and really
embracing this total
polarity to be experienced
in this emotional realm.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah, that's right.
And that's why relationships
are so powerful for us.
Because the minute you're
in a relationship, whatever
polarity or duality that you
haven't resolved yourself
is going to appearing in your
partner and in the relationship
itself.
And it's almost like
relationships are almost
like a triangle.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HAND CLOW: But they give
you a new view-- a new view
that you can't have if
you're just on your own.
>>REGINA: That's very true.
>>HAND CLOW: So that's why we go
into relationships periodically
or try changing them.
>>REGINA: The most challenging
thing on this planet--
>>HAND CLOW: Yes, it is.
>>REGINA: --are our
relationships with each other.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
Emotions are the
most challenging.
And emotional relationships
are the most challenging.
Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So we can use
that as a blessing, right?
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: To start learning
it through relationships
and start observing our
own emotions and reactions
through this past drama, be
it collective or individual.
We only have a
couple minutes left.
Again, any final
thoughts on how we
can thwart the manipulation
from the 4-D world that's
been going on and elevate
ourselves beyond that now.
>>HAND CLOW: I really
do think the trick
for people now is to
really start taking
a look at organized religion.
And what I mean by
that is for Catholics
to start considering
what's going on with Islam.
For Islamic people to consider
what's going on with--
and I'm using those three
religions because those three
religions are all coming down
from Abraham, the father God.
And those three religions
are creating the conflicts
on the planet.
And so for people who are--
>>REGINA: It's not Buddhists.
>>HAND CLOW: No, they aren't.
As I said to you, it'd be
easier if we had Buddhists.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>HAND CLOW: But it's
really important for people
of those three
religions to start
learning about and admiring the
aspects of the other religion,
instead of demonizing them.
Because if we demonize
the other religion
it just turns into another
duality, another us
against them, and another war.
>>REGINA: And it's just such
a simple choice on one hand,
yet it seems like
it's lifetimes away.
>>HAND CLOW: I know.
It does seem like it,
but I don't think so.
Because I think we're coming
to that breaking point.
>>REGINA: Good.
>>HAND CLOW: Yeah, I do.
>>REGINA: Excellent.
Well, on that note, I just
wanted to thank you again
for inviting us into your
beautiful home and library
here, just one of the most
spectacular metaphysical
and science scientific
libraries I've ever seen.
And also for us for
allowing us to really go
into more depth on Annunaki
and your understanding of it.
Because this is,
I think, will be
very refreshing and hopefully
freeing for a lot of people.
>>HAND CLOW: I hope so.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HAND CLOW: Certainly
fear-- certainly fear is not
going to accomplish anything.
>>REGINA: No slave species.
We're no one's slave.
>>HAND CLOW: No.
It's not.
Well, thank you, Regina.
>>REGINA: Thank you, Barbara.
>>HAND CLOW: Thanks for coming.
[THEME MUSIC]